Feature/code formatter (#2)
thoth-tech/programming-arcana: README.md

# Programming Arcana

The Programming Arcana is an open source programming text book that focuses on teaching introductory programming concepts.

The guiding principles are:

- Transferable concepts are more important than language specifics
- Build concepts on top of known concepts as much as possible
- Focus on procedural programming initially, with a view to transitioning to objects
- Build programs that make it easy to see what is happening in the code

# Code formatter

We use [_clang-format_](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) as our code format for this project.

> ## installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion will do.

### Linux

_clang-format_ can be installed by:

```bash
sudo apt install clang-format
```

> ### MacOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### macOS
```

_clang-format_ can be installed by:

```bash
brew install clang-format
```

### Windows

The executable file can be downloaded from [llvm org](https://llvm.org/builds/).

### Other

The _clang-format_ can also be installed with python and nodejs:

```bash
# python
python3 -m pip install clang-format

# nodejs
npm install -g clang-format
```

The [VS code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=xaver.clang-format). (optional, clang-format required)

## The format style

The base format style used is _llvm_, the detailed format options is inside the file [.clang-format](/.clang-format) generated with command `clang-format -style=llvm -dump-config > .clang-format`.

## Usage

To use the code formatter you can use command:

```bash
clang-format -i <file name>
```

Or if you have VS code extension installed you can use _right click_ -> _Format Document With ..._ option.

In order to recursively format all files, you can use command:

```bash

> find . -regex '.*\.\(cpp\|c\)' -exec clang-format -style=file -i {} \;

Reviewer: **suggestion (non-blocking):** We could put this command in a `Makefile`, something like `make format`.

Author: Haven't done any work with `Makefile` but I can research and start on that, thanks for the suggestion.

- Build programs that make it easy to see what is happening in the code

# Code formatter

We use [_clang-format_](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) as our code format for this project.

## Installation

### Linux

_clang-format_ can be installed by:

```bash
sudo apt install clang-format
```

### macOS

_clang-format_ can be installed by:

```bash
brew install clang-format
```

### Windows

The executable file can be downloaded from [llvm org](https://llvm.org/builds/).

### Other

The _clang-format_ can also be installed with python and nodejs:

```bash
# python
python3 -m pip install clang-format

# nodejs
npm install -g clang-format
```

The [VS code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=xaver.clang-format). (optional, clang-format required)

## The format style

The base format style used is [_google_](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).

## Usage

To use the code formatter you can use command:

```bash
clang-format -i <file name>
```

Or if you have VS code extension installed you can use _right click_ -> _Format Document With ..._ option.

In order to recursively format all files, you can use command:

```bash

> make format

Reviewer: **question:** Can the wrapper script format the code as well? I think we should either go with `make` wrapper for the clang-format command or the wrapper script (see more about my [thought](https://github.com/thoth-tech/programming-arcana/pull/2/files#r867419985) to stay with the earlier).

Author: sure thing

Author: Yes we can use wrapper script to format code.From my opinoin we can use the wrapper script and remove the `makefile`. Then intoduce the command ` find . -regex '.*\.\(cpp\|c\)' -exec clang-format -style=file -i {} \;` in readme for windows users as my [reply](https://github.com/thoth-tech/programming-arcana/pull/2#discussion_r867529693) because windows users need wsl to running the ` make ` command. So I think there's no point to have a ` makefile ` with 
```
format: 
	find . -regex '.*\.\(cpp\|c\)' -exec clang-format -style=file -i {} \;
```

Reviewer: Is `find` available in Windows or do we still need WSL 🤔 ?

How about a command without `find`?

```
clang-format -style=file -i **/*.(cpp|c)
```

Author: Ops forget the ` find ` command is not available in windows, I will try to use powershell command instead.

And unfortunate clang-format does not support recurse function.

```

> ## Check files

Author: @tancnle Any suggestion for this section title? I do not think this title is appropriate.

Reviewer 2: Ideally, it should state what that section is about. I suggest being more specific. Changing _check_ to format or updating formatting or _validate code_

Author: Thanks for the suggestion

Reviewer: @RayGuo-ergou Clang-format is a code formatter, it highlights code style issues. I would vote for `Format code` to keep the language consistent. `Validate` could possibly be inferred as testing as well.

- Build programs that make it easy to see what is happening in the code

# Code formatter

We use [_clang-format_](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) as our code format for this project.

## Installation

### Linux

_clang-format_ can be installed by:

```bash
sudo apt install clang-format
```

### macOS

_clang-format_ can be installed by:

```bash
brew install clang-format
```

### Windows

The executable file can be downloaded from [llvm org](https://llvm.org/builds/).

### Other

The _clang-format_ can also be installed with python and nodejs:

```bash
# python
python3 -m pip install clang-format

# nodejs
npm install -g clang-format
```

The [VS code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=xaver.clang-format). (optional, clang-format required)

## The format style

The base format style used is [_google_](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).

## Usage

### Validate Code

A python script from [Sarcasm](https://github.com/Sarcasm/run-clang-format) is used to validate the code.

For example, you can use check if the file _./code/c/array/array-copy.c_ needs to be formatted.

```bash
# make the wrapped script executable

> chmod +x ./script/run-clang-format.py

Reviewer: **question:** Is this still needed given the file is already executable?

```shell
stat -c %A script/run-clang-format.py
-rwxr-xr-x
```

Author: Right, we don't need to. forget we changed the mod in git.

# use python instead of python3 if python version is 2
./script/run-clang-format.py  ./code/c/array/array-copy.c
```

The output would be

> ```

Reviewer: **nitpick (non-blocking)**: 

```suggestion
```diff
```

--- ./code/c/array/array-copy.c (original)
+++ ./code/c/array/array-copy.c (reformatted)
@@ -2,14 +2,13 @@

 #include <string.h>

-int main()
-{
-    int data[3] = {1, 2, 3};
-    int other_data[3];
-    int more_data[3];
-
-    memcpy(other_data, data, 3 * sizeof(int));
-    memcpy(more_data, data, sizeof(data));
-
-    return 0;
+int main() {
+  int data[3] = {1, 2, 3};
+  int other_data[3];
+  int more_data[3];
+
+  memcpy(other_data, data, 3 * sizeof(int));
+  memcpy(more_data, data, sizeof(data));
+
+  return 0;
 }%
```

> \*Python3 is normally installed as default package for most operation systems. However, if you are using windows and do not want to install Python. You can use:
> `clang-format .\code\c\array\array-copy.c `, but it would not have the feature in the wrapped script e.g. color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\*Python3 is normally installed as a default package in most operating systems. However, if you are using Windows and do not want to install Python, you can use
`clang-format .\code\c\array\array-copy.c `. However,  it would not have the feature in the wrapper script, for example, coloured output.
```

> ### Replace the Old Code with Formatted Code

Reviewer: **suggestion:** According to our documentation [guide](https://github.com/thoth-tech/handbook/blob/main/docs/processes/documentation/writing-style-guide.md#capitalisation), we should use sentence case

```suggestion
### Replace the old code with formatted code
```

or simply

```suggestion
### Format code
```
